# DB Instances
A DB instance is an isolated database environment in the AWS Cloud.
You can create and modify a DB instance by using the AWS CLI, Amazon RDS API, or the AWS Management Console.

>RDS does not allow direct host access except with RDS Custom.

You can have up to 40 DB instances, with the following limitations:
- 10 for `SQL Server` under the `license-included` model.
- 10 for `Oracle` under the `license-included` model.
- 40 for `Db2` under the `bring-your-own-license (BYOL)` model.
- 40 for `MYSQL, MariaDB, or PostgreSQL`.
- 40 for `Oracle` under the `BYOL` licensing model.

>It's possible to request more DB instances.

Each DB instance has an identifier which is supplied by the customer and must be unique for that customer in an [AWS Region](aws_region.md).

The identifier forms part of the `DNS` host name allocated to your instance. For example, if you specify `db1` as the identifier an example endpoint could be:

`db.abcdefghikl.us-east-1.rds.amazonaws.com`

In the example:
- `abcdefghijkl`: Is a unique identifier for a specific combination of [AWS Region](aws_region.md) and account and is internally generated by RDS. Thus, all your instances in this  Region share the same fixed identifier.

Each instance supports a [database engine](000-introduction.md#Supported%20engines)

RDS creates a master user account for your instance as part of the creation process. You must set the master user password when you create an instance. Besides using AWS CLI, RDS API and AWS MC, you can also change the master user password and manage users using standard SQL commands.
## DB instance classes
Determines the computation and memory capacity of a DB instance. It consists of both the DB instance class type and size.
- General purpose - db.m*
- Memory optimized - db.z*, db.x*, db.r*
- Compute optimized - db.c*
- Burstable performance - db.t*
> (\*) represents the generation, optional attribute, and size.

For example, `db.r6g.2xlarge` is a memory-optimized instance powered by AWS Graviton 2 processors. The size of this class is `2xlarge`.

[Determining instance support in AWS Regions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/Concepts.DBInstanceClass.RegionSupport.html)
[Hardware specifications for DB instance classes](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/Concepts.DBInstanceClass.Summary.html)
## DB instances in an Amazon `VPC`
You can run a DB instance in Amazon `VPC` service. The basic functionality of RDS is the same whether running in a `VPC` or not. There's no additional cost to run your DB instance in a `VPC`.

RDS uses Network Time Protocol (`NTP`) to synchronize the time on DB instances.
[Amazon VPC and Amazon RDS](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/USER_VPC.html)