# Behavior Driven Development (BDD)
## Overview
Its main goal is to involve non-technical people in the specification and understanding of the testing functionalities of programs.

Involved people use a combination of their **native and ubiquitous language**, allowing them to focus on **why** the code must be created rather than the technical details. This minimizes the gap between technical and domain-specific language.

BDD is a **high level** of testing and tests the system from the **outside in**. It ensures that you're building the "right thing".

The appropriate levels for performing BDD are:
- Integration
- End-to-End
- System
## How BDD Works
BDD makes use of a **Domain Specific Language (DSL)**, which converts structured natural language statements into executable tests. 

**All interested parties collaborate** to define application requirements using a shared language, in the form of **user stories and scenarios**. Which describes how the system should behave in a given scenario.
The syntax used to create those stories and scenario is **Gherkin**.
Developers can then:
1. Use these specifications to create automated tests.
2. Write production code to pass the tests.

Note that BDD is not concerned with the internal working of the system. It observes how the system behave from the user's point of view.
## Focus Areas in BDD
- Where to start the process.
- What to test and what not to test.
- How much needs to be tested at once.
- How to understand why a test fails.
## Advantages of BDD
- **Dynamic documentation:** The system is more easily documented.
- **Example-based approach:** Uses examples to describe the behavior of an application or a code unit.
### When using BDD
- Think about testing your software based on the **behavior it exhibits to a user**, rather than focusing on the internal structure from the producer’s perspective.
- The specifications should **not** describe how the software works internally. Instead, they should **describe small increments in functionality** from a user's point of view.
- These specifications are backed by **sets of examples** that serve as **acceptance criteria**. If these criteria are met, the system is considered to be doing something useful.