# Write-Ahead Logging - WAL
Also known as **Transaction Log** in PostgreSQL. Is a standard method for ensuring data integrity. Briefly, WAL's central concept is that changes to data files (where tables and indexes reside) must be written only after those changes have been logged, that is, after WAL records describing the changes have been flushed to permanent storage.

If we follow this procedure, we do not need to flush data pages to disk on every transaction commit, because we know that in the event of a crash, we will be able to recover the database using the log. Any changes that have not been applied to the data pages can be redone from the WAL records. This is roll-forward recovery, also known as REDO.

Using WAL results in a significantly reduced number of disk writes, because only the WAL file needs to be flushed to disk to guarantee that a transaction is committed, rather than every data file changed by the transaction. The WAL file is written sequentially, and so the cost of syncing the WAL is much less than the cost of flushing the data pages. This is especially true for servers handling many small transactions touching different parts of the data store. Furthermore, when the server is processing many small concurrent transactions, one `fsync` of the WAL file may suffice to commit many transactions.

WAL also makes it possible to support on-line backup and point-in-time recovery. By archiving the WAL data, we can support reverting to any time instant covered by the available WAL data. What's more, the physical backup doesn't have to be an instantaneous snapshot of the database state, it it's made over some period of time, then replaying the WAL for that period will fix any internal inconsistencies.

`pg_wal` is the directory used to store WAL files starting from PostgreSQL 10. In previous versions, the directory was called `pg_xlog`.