# Testing
Privdes support for automated testing of Go packages.
It's intended to be used in concert with the `go test` command, which 
automates execution of any function of the form:
  
```go
func TestXxx(*testing.T)
```
  
Where `Xxx` does not start with a lowercase letter. The function names 
serves to identify the test routine.  
Within these functions, use the Error, Fail or related methods to signal 
failure.  
Test files must have a name ending `_test.go`. The file will be excluded 
from regular package builds but will be included when the `go test` command
is run.  
The test file can be in the same package as the one being tested, or in a 
corresponding package with the suffix `_test`.  
If the file is in a separate `_test` package, the package being test must 
be imported explicily and only its exported identifiers may be used. This 
is known as `black box` testing.  

## Benchmarks
Functions of the form

```go
func BenchmarkXxx(*testing.B)
```

Are executed by the `go test` command when its `-bench` flag is provided. 
Benchmarks are run sequentially.  
A sample benchmark function looks like this:  

```go
func BenchmarkRandInt(b *testing.B) {
    for range b.N {
        rand.Int()
    }
}
```

The benchmark function must run the target code `b.N` times. It is called 
multiple times with `b.N` adjusted until the benchmark function lasts long 
enough to be timed reliably.  
  
> BenchmarkRandInt-8   	68453040	        17.8 ns/op

This output means that the loop ran 68453040 times at a speed of 17.8 ns 
per loop.  
If a benchmark needs some expensive setup before running, the timer may be
reset:  

```go
func BenchmarkBigLen(b *testing.B) {
    big := NewBig()
    b.ResetTimer()
    for range b.N {
        big.Len()
    }
}
```

If a benchmark needs to test performance in a parallel setting, it may use 
the RunParallel helper function; such benchmarks are intended to be used 
with the `-cpu` flag.  

```go
func BenchmarkTemplateParallel(b *testing.B) {
    templ := template.Must(template.New("test").Parse("Hello, {{.}}!"))
    b.RunParallel(func(pb *testing.PB) {
        var buf bytes.Buffer
        for pb.Next() {
            buf.Reset()
            templ.Execute(&buf, "World")
        }
    })
}
```

## Examples
The package also runs and verifies example code.  
Example functions may include a concluding line comment that begins with
`Output:` and is compared with the standard output of the function when the
test run.  

```go
func ExampleHello() {
    fmt.Println("hello")
    // Output: hello
}
```

The comment prefix `Unordered output:` is like `Output:`, but matches any 
line order.  

```go
func ExamplePerm() {
    for _, value := range Perm(5) {
        fmt.Println(value)
    }
    // Unordered output: 4
    // 2
    // 1
    // 3
    // 0
}
```

Example functions without output comments are compiled but not executed.  
The naming convention to declare examples for the package, a function F a 
type T and method M on type T are:  

```go
func Example() {...}
func ExampleF() {...}
func ExampleT() {...}
func ExampleT_M() {...}
```

Multiple example functions for a package/type/function/method may be 
provided by appending a distinct suffix to the name. The suffix must start 
with a lower-case letter.  

```go
func Example_suffix() {...}
func ExampleF_suffix() {...}
func ExampleT_suffix() {...}
func ExampleT_M_suffix() {...}
```

The entire test file is presented as the example when it contains a single
example function, at least one other function, type, variable, or constant
declaration, and no test or benchmark functions.  

## Fuzzing
Fuzzing is a testing technique where a function is called with randomly 
generated inputs to find bugs not anticipated by unit tests.  

```go
func FuzzXxx(*testing.F)
```
A fuzz test maintains a seed corpus, or a set of inputs which are run by 
default, and can seed input generation.  
Seed inputs may be registered by callind `(*testing.F).Add` or by storing 
files in the directory `testdata/fuzz/<Name>` (where `<Name>` is the name 
of the fuzz test) within the package containing the fuzz test.  
Seed inputs are optional, but the fuzzing engine may find bugs more 
efficiently when provided with a set of small seed inputs with good code 
coverage.  
The function passed to `(*F).Fuzz` within the fuzz test is considered the 
fuzz target. A fuzz target must accept a `*T` parameter, followed by one or
more parameters for random inputs. The types of arguments passed to 
`(*F).Add` must be identical to the types of these parameters. The fuzz 
target may signal that it's found a problem the same way tests do: by 
calling `T.Fail` (or any method that calls it like `T.Error` or `T.Fatal`)
or by panicking.  
When fuzzing is enabled (by setting the `-fuzz` flag to a regular 
expression that matches a specific fuzz test), the fuzz target is called 
with arguments generated by repeatedly making random changes to the seed 
inputs. On supported platforms, `go test` compiles the test executable with
fuzzing coverage instrumentation. The fuzzing engine uses that 
instrumentation to find and cache inputs that expand coverage, increasing 
the likelihood of finding bugs. If the fuzz target fails for a given input,
the fuzzing engine writes the inputs that caused the failure to a file in 
the directory `testdata/fuzz/<Name>` within the package directory. This 
file later serves as a seed input. If the file can't be written at that 
location, the fuzzing engine writes the file to the fuzz cache directory 
within the build cache instead.  
When fuzzing is disabled, the fuzz target is called with the seed inputs 
registered with `F.Add` and seed inputs from `testdata/fuzz/<Name>`. In 
this mode, the fuzz test acts much like a regular test, with subtests 
started with `F.Fuzz` instead of `T.Run`.  


## Skipping
Tests or benchmarks may be skipped at run time with a call to the Skip 
method of `*T` or `*B`  

```go
func TestTimeConsuming(t *testing.T) {
    if testing.Short() {
        t.Skip("skipping test in short mode.")
    }
}
```

The Skip method of `*T` can be used in a fuzz target if the input is 
invalid, but should not be considered a failing input.  

```go
func FuzzJSONMarshaling(f *testing.F) {
    f.Fuzz(func(t *testing.T, b []byte) {
        var v interface{}
        if err := json.Unmarshal(b, &v); err != nil {
            t.Skip()
        }
        if _, err := json.Marshal(v); err != nil {
            t.Errorf("Marshal: %v", err)
        }
    })
}
```

## Subtests and Sub-benchmarks
The Run methods of `T` and `B` allow defining subtests and sub-benchmarks,
without having to define separate functions for each. This enables uses 
like table-driven benchmarks and creating hierarchical tests. It also 
provides a way to share common setup and tear-down code:  

```go
func TestFoo(t *testing.T) {
    // <setup code>
    t.Run("A=1", func(t *testing.T) { ... })
    t.Run("A=2", func(t *testing.T) { ... })
    t.Run("B=1", func(t *testing.T) { ... })
    // <tear-down code>
}
```

Each subtest has a unique name in which the combination of the name of the
top-level test and the sequence of names passed to `Run`, separated by 
slashes, with an optional trailing sequence number.  
The argument to the `-run`, `-bench`, and `-fuzz` command-line flags is an
unanchored regular expression that matches the test's name. For tests 
with multiple slash-separated elements, such as subtests, the argument is 
itself slash-separated, with expressions matching each name element in 
turn. Because it is unanchored, an empty expression matches any string.  

```bash
go test -run ''        # Run all tests.
go test -run Foo       # Run top-level tests matching "Foo", such as "TestFooBar".
go test -run Foo/A=    # For top-level tests matching "Foo", run subtests matching "A=".
go test -run /A=1      # For all top-level tests, run subtests matching "A=1".
go test -fuzz FuzzFoo  # Fuzz the target matching "FuzzFoo"
```

Subtests can also be used to control parallelism. A parent test will only 
complete once all of its subtests complete. In this example, all tests are
run in parallel with each other, and only with each other, regardless of 
other top-level tests that may be defined.  

## Main
It is sometimes necessary for a test or benchmark program to do extra setup
or teardown before or after it executes. It is also sometimes necessary to
control which code runs on the main thread. To support these and other 
cases, if a test file contains a function:  

```go
func TestMain(m *testing.M)
```

then the generated test will call TestMain(m) instead of running the tests
or benchmarks directly. `TestMain` runs in the main goroutine and can do 
whatever setup and teardown is necessary around a call to `m.Run`. `m.Run`
will return an exit code that may be passed to `os.Exit`. If `TestMain` 
returns, the test wrapper will pass the result of `m.Run` to `os.Exit` 
itself.  
When `TestMain` is called, `flag.Parse` has not been run. If `TestMain` 
depends on command-line flags, including those of the testing package, it 
should call `flag.Parse` explicitly. Command line flags are always parsed 
by the time test or benchmark functions run.  
`TestMain` is a low-level primitive and should not be necessary for casual 
testing needs, where ordinary test functions suffice.  
